Title: Apache Solr Operator™ v0.7.0 available
category: solr/operator/news
save_as:

The Apache Solr PMC is pleased to announce the release of the Apache Solr Operator v0.7.0.

The Apache Solr Operator is a safe and easy way of managing a Solr ecosystem in Kubernetes.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release is available for immediate download at:

  <https://solr.apache.org/operator/artifacts.html>

### Solr Operator v0.7.0 Release Highlights:

* The minimum Kubernetes version supported is now v1.21.
* The required Zookeeper Operator version has been upgraded to v0.2.15.
* Clusterwide PodDisruptionBudgets are now created for SolrClouds by default.
* During a rolling restart/update, SolrCloud pods are now taken out of the common service endpoint before they are decommissioned. This should improve request reliability during rolling restarts.
* Many missing Provided Zookeeper options have been added.
* Using volume backupRepositories now initialize faster on pod creation and work with custom user/fsGroup.
* Default SolrCloud and SolrPrometheusExporter Pod probes have been improved.
* Bug fixed in non-recurring backups.
* Bug fixed with custom persistent data volume names.

A summary of important changes is published in the documentation at:

  <https://apache.github.io/solr-operator/docs/upgrade-notes.html>

For the most exhaustive list, see the change log on ArtifactHub or view the git history in the solr-operator repo.

  <https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/apache-solr/solr-operator?modal=changelog>

  <https://github.com/apache/solr-operator/releases/tag/v0.7.0>
