Title: Apache Solr Operator™ v0.8.0 available
category: solr/operator/news
save_as:

The Apache Solr PMC is pleased to announce the release of the Apache Solr Operator v0.8.0.

The Apache Solr Operator is a safe and easy way of managing a Solr ecosystem in Kubernetes.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release is available for immediate download at:

  <https://solr.apache.org/operator/artifacts.html>

### Solr Operator v0.8.0 Release Highlights:

* The minimum supported version of Solr has been set to Solr 8.11
* The minimum Kubernetes version supported is now v1.22
* Managed scale up and scale down are now supported for SolrClouds.
    * By default, when scaling down a SolrCloud, replicas will be migrated off Pods before they are deleted.
    * By default, when scaling up a SolrCloud, replicas will be balanced across all Pods after the SolrCloud has been scaled up. (Only supported for Solr 9.3+)
* SSL bugs with Solr 9 have been fixed, and v0.8.0 will successfully support SSL for Solr 8.11 and 9.4+
* Solr 8.11 features are now supported by default, such as maxBooleanClauses, metrics disabling, health endpoint for readinessCheck
* Keystore/Truststore passwords can be explicitly set in the SolrCloud CRD for mountedDir SSL. This enables the use of the CertManager CSI Driver with Solr.
* Rolling Updates for SolrClouds using ephemeral storage are now safer and replicas are balanced at the end of the operation to ensure optimal resource utilization.
    * Replica balancing is only supported when Solr 9.3+ is used.

A summary of important changes is published in the documentation at:

  <https://apache.github.io/solr-operator/docs/upgrade-notes.html>

For the most exhaustive list, see the change log on ArtifactHub or view the git history in the solr-operator repo.

  <https://artifacthub.io/packages/helm/apache-solr/solr-operator?modal=changelog>

  <https://github.com/apache/solr-operator/releases/tag/v0.8.0>
