Title: Building PyLucene
URL: pylucene/install.html
save_as: pylucene/install.html
template: lucene/pylucene/page

## Building PyLucene

PyLucene is completely code-generated by JCC whose sources are included with the
PyLucene sources.

## Requirements

To build PyLucene a Java Development Kit (JDK) and [Ant](https://ant.apache.org)
are required; use of the resulting PyLucene binaries requires only a Java Runtime
Environment (JRE).

**Attention:** Starting with release 6.x, Lucene requires Java 1.8.

On macOS, you will need to install Oracle Java 8, and due to a
[bug](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-7131356) in the JDK for macOS,
you will **also** need to install Apple's Java 1.6.

On macOS, once installed, a way to make Java 1.8 the default in your bash shell is:<br/>
```
$ export JAVA_HOME=\`/usr/libexec/java_home\`
```
Be sure to verify that JAVA_HOME value.

On any system, if you're upgrading your Java installation, please rebuild
JCC as well. You must use the same version of Java for both JCC and PyLucene.

A modern version of setuptools is required for building JCC in shared mode.
See JCC's [installation instructions](jcc/install.html) for more information.

## For the Impatient Ones

- **pushd jcc**
- _<edit _setup.py_ to match your environment>;_
- **python setup.py build**
- **sudo python setup.py install**
- **popd**
- _<edit _Makefile_ to match your environment>_
- **make**
- **make test** (look for failures)
- **sudo make install**

## For the Rest of Us

Before building PyLucene, JCC must be built first. See JCC's
[installation instructions](jcc/install.html) for building and installing it.

Once JCC is built and installed, PyLucene is built via _make_ which invokes JCC.
See PyLucene's _Makefile_ for configuration instructions.

There are limits to both how many files can fit on the command line and how large
a C++ file the C++ compiler can handle. By default, JCC generates one large C++
file containing the source code for all wrapper classes.

Using the --files command line argument, this behaviour can be tuned to workaround
various limits, for example:

- to break up the large wrapper class file into about 2 files:<br/>`--files 2`
- to break up the large wrapper class file into about 10 files:<br/>`--files 10`
- to generate one C++ file per Java class wrapped:<br/>`--files separate`

## Notes for Solaris 11 with Sun Studio C++ 12

PyLucene's Makefile is a GNU Makefile. Be sure to use _gmake_ instead of plain _make_.

Just as when building JCC, Python's distutils must be nudged a bit to invoke the
correct compiler. Sun Studio's C compiler is called _cc_ while its C++ compiler is
called _CC_.

To build PyLucene, use the following shell command to ensure that the C++ compiler
is used:<br/>`$ CC=CC gmake`

## Notes for Solaris 11.1 with GCC 4.5

PyLucene's Makefile is a GNU Makefile. Be sure to use gmake instead of plain make.

- Edit Makefile and do the following changes: Insert and enable a Solaris-Section
with the following content

```
\# Solaris   (Solaris 11.1, Python 2.6, 32-bit, Java 1.7)
PREFIX_PYTHON=/usr
ANT=/usr/bin/ant
PYTHON=$(PREFIX_PYTHON)/bin/python
JCC=$(PYTHON) -m jcc.\_\_main\_\_ --reserved DEFAULT_TYPE
NUM_FILES=4
```

- gmake
- su gmake install
