Title: Lucene Core 4.9.0 Available
category: core/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 4.9.0

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine
library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly
any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and
improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release
is available for immediate download at:
  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/mirrors-core-latest-redir.html>

See the [CHANGES.txt](/core/4_9_0/changes/Changes.html) file included with the release for a full list of
details.

Lucene 4.9.0 Release Highlights:

* New Terms.getMin/Max methods to retrieve the lowest and highest
  terms per field.

* New IDVersionPostingsFormat, optimized for ID lookups that associate
  a monotonically increasing version per ID.

* Atomic update of a set of doc values fields.

* Numerous optimizations for doc values search-time performance.

* New (default) Lucene49NormsFormat to better compress certain cases
  such as very short fields.

* New SORTED_NUMERIC docvalues type for efficient processing of
  multi-valued numeric fields.

* Indexer passes previous token stream for easier reuse.

* MoreLikeThis accepts multiple values per field.

* All classes that estimate their RAM usage now implement a new
  Accountable interface.

* Lucene files are now written by (File)OutputStream on all platforms,
  completely disallowing seeking with simplified IO APIs.

* Improve the confusing error message when MMapDirectory cannot create
  a new map.

