Title: Apache Lucene™ 5.3.0 available
category: core/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 5.3.0

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine
library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly
any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

The release is available for immediate download at:
 <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/5.3.0>


This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and
improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release
is available for immediate download at:
  https://lucene.apache.org/core/mirrors-core-latest-redir.html

### Lucene 5.3.0 Release Highlights:

#### API Changes

 * PhraseQuery and BooleanQuery are now immutable

#### New features

 * Added a new org.apache.lucene.search.join.CheckJoinIndex class that can be used to validate that an index has an appropriate structure to run join queries
 * Added a new BlendedTermQuery to blend statistics across several terms
 * New common suggest API that mirrors Lucene's Query/IndexSearcher APIs for Document based suggester.
 * IndexWriter can now be initialized from an already open near-real-time or non-NRT reader
 * Add experimental range tree doc values format and queries, based on a 1D version of the spatial BKD tree, for a faster and smaller alternative to postings-based numeric and binary term filtering.  Range trees can also handle values larger than 64 bits.

#### Geo-related features and improvements

 * Added GeoPointField, GeoPointInBBoxQuery, GeoPointInPolygonQuery for simple "indexed lat/lon point in bbox/shape" searching
 * Added experimental BKD geospatial tree doc values format and queries, for fast "bbox/polygon contains lat/lon points"
 * Use doc values to post-filter GeoPointField hits that fall in boundary cells, resulting in smaller index, faster searches and less heap used for each query

#### Optimizations
 * Reduce RAM usage of FieldInfos, and speed up lookup by number, by using an array instead of TreeMap except in very sparse cases
 * Faster intersection of the terms dictionary with very finite automata, which can be generated eg. by simple regexp queries
 * Various bugfixes and optimizations since the 5.2.0 release.


See the [CHANGES.txt](/core/5_3_0/changes/Changes.html) file included with the
release for a full list of changes and further details.

