Title: Lucene Core 5.2.0 Available
category: core/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 5.2.0

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine
library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly
any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

The release is available for immediate download at:
 <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/5.2.0>

Lucene 5.2.0 release highlights:

* Span queries now share document conjunction/intersection code with boolean queries, and use two-phased iterators for faster intersection by avoiding loading positions in certain cases.

* Added two-phase support to SpanNotQuery, and SpanPositionCheckQuery and its subclasses: SpanPositionRangeQuery, SpanPayloadCheckQuery, SpanNearPayloadCheckQuery, SpanFirstQuery.

* Added a new query time join to the join module that uses global ordinals, which is faster for subsequent joins between reopens.

* New CompositeSpatialStrategy combines speed of RPT with accuracy of SDV. Includes optimized Intersect predicate to avoid many geometry checks. Uses TwoPhaseIterator.

* New LimitTokenOffsetFilter that limits tokens to those before a configured maximum start offset.

*  New spatial PackedQuadPrefixTree, a generally more efficient choice than QuadPrefixTree, especially for high precision shapes. When used, you should typically disable RPT's pruneLeafyBranches option.

* Expressions now support bindings keys that look like zero arg functions

* Add SpanWithinQuery and SpanContainingQuery that return spans inside of / containing another spans.

* New Spatial "Geo3d" API with partial Spatial4j integration. It is a set of shapes implemented using 3D planar geometry for calculating spatial relations on the surface of a sphere. Shapes include Point, BBox, Circle, Path (buffered line string), and Polygon.

* Various bugfixes and optimizations since the 5.1.0 release.

See the [CHANGES.txt](/core/5_2_0/changes/Changes.html) file included with the
release for a full list of changes and further details.

