Title: Apache Lucene™ 6.3.0 available
category: core/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 6.3.0

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine
library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly
any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and
improvements, some of which are highlighted below.
The release is available for immediate download at:

  <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/6.3.0>

See the [CHANGES.txt](/core/6_3_0/changes/Changes.html) file included with the
release for a full list of changes and further details.

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

  * A brand new "UnifiedHighlighter" derivative of the PostingsHighlighter that can consume offsets from postings, term vectors, or analysis. It can highlight phrases as accurately as the standard Highlighter. Light term vectors can be used with offsets in postings for fast wildcard (MultiTermQuery) highlighting.

  * SimpleQueryParser now parses '*' to MatchAllDocsQuery

  * FuzzyQuery now matches all terms within the specified edit distance, even if they are short terms

  * Points do not store the implicit split dimension in the 1-dimension case. This saves between 6% memory for the largest types such an InetAddressPoint to 33% for the smaller types such as HalfFloatPoint.

  * Many other changes and bug fixes

