Title: Apache Lucene™ 6.4.0 available
category: core/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 6.4.0

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine
library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly
any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and
improvements, some of which are highlighted below.
The release is available for immediate download at:

  <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/6.4.0>

See the [CHANGES.txt](/core/6_4_0/changes/Changes.html) file included with the
release for a full list of changes and further details.

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

  * Lucene's best efforts to un-map memory mapped files with "MMapDirectory" now work with the latest Java9 early access builds

  * A new similarity "BooleanSimilarity" that gives terms a score that is equal to their query boost

  * The axiomatic family of similarities (6 in total) based on https://www.eecis.udel.edu/~hfang/pubs/sigir05-axiom.pdf

  * A new token filter "SynonymGraphFilter" that outputs a correct graph structure for multi-token synonyms at query time

  * Graph token streams, such as those produced by the "SynonymGraphFilter", are now handled accurately by query parsers

  * A new collector "DocValuesStatsCollector" gives the ability to compute statistics on DocValues field

  * It is now possible to filter "SortedDocValues" and "SortedSetDocValues" terms enum with a compiled automaton

  * The "UnifiedHighlighter" can now highlight fields with queries that don't necessarily refer to that field

  * DrillSideways can now run queries concurrently

  * Index sorting now supports sorting on multi-valued fields using MIN, MAX, etc. selectors

  * Points do not store the implicit split dimension in the 1-dimension case. This saves between 6% memory for the largest types such an InetAddressPoint to 33% for the smaller types such as HalfFloatPoint.

  * The BKD in-memory index for dimensional points now uses a compressed format, using substantially less RAM in some cases

  * The BKD writing now buffers each leaf block in heap before writing to disk, giving a small speedup in points-heavy use cases

  * "TermAutomatonQuery" now rewrites to more efficient queries when possible

Please note, this release cannot be built from source with Java 8 update 121,
use an earlier version instead! This is caused by a bug introduced into the
Javadocs tool shipped with that update. The workaround was too late for this
Lucene release. Of course, you can use the binary artifacts.

