Title: Apache Lucene™ 7.5.0 available
category: core/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 7.5.0.

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release is available for immediate download at:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>

### Lucene 7.5.0 Release Highlights:

  * IndexWriter#deleteDocs(Query... query) applies deletes to wrong documents if the index is sorted.
  * TieredMergePolicy now respects maxSegmentSizeMB by default when executing findForcedMerges and findForcedDeletesMerges.
  * A new points based Shape Indexing and Searching that decomposes shapes into a triangular mesh and indexes individual triangles as a 6 dimension point.
  * A new ByteBuffer based Directory implementation that aims to replace the deprecated RAMDirectory.
  * The UnifiedHighlighter can now use the MatchesIterator API to highlight any query more accurately.
  * TopFieldComparator can now stop comparing documents if the index is sorted, even if hits still need to be visited to compute the hit count.
  * TieredMergePolicy can control how aggressively deletes should be reclaimed with the new deletesPctAllowed setting.

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/7_5_0/changes/Changes.html>

