Title: Apache Lucene™ 7.6.0 available
category: core/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 7.6.0.

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release is available for immediate download at:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>

### Lucene 7.6.0 Release Highlights:

  * Index sorting corruption due to numeric overflow has been fixed. Indices affected by this bug can be detected by running the CheckIndex command on a 7.6+ release distribution.
  * Better tessellation processing of Polygons including graceful exceptions for detecting invalid shapes.
  * Points codec now supports `selective indexing`; the ability to designate dimensions as as "data only" dimensions that do not affect construction of the index.
  * New Simple WKT Shape Parser builds lucene geometries (polygons, lines, rectangles) from WKT format.
  * New LatLonShapeLineQuery queries indexed shapes with arbitrary lines.
  * analyzeGraphPhrase query builder creates one phrase query per finite strings in the graph based on slop parameter.
  * Performance in PerFieldMergeState#FilterFieldInfos has been improved from O(N) to O(1) lookup time.

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/7_6_0/changes/Changes.html>

