Title: Apache Lucene™ 7.7.0 available
category: core/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 7.7.0.

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release is available for immediate download at:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>

### Lucene 7.7.0 Release Highlights:

  * Fix LatLonShape WITHIN queries that fail with Multiple search Polygons that share the dateline.
  * LatLonShape's within and disjoint queries can return false positives with indexed multi-shapes.
  * ExitableDirectoryReader may now time out queries that run on points such as range queries or geo queries.
  * StandardTokenizer and UAX29URLEmailTokenizer now support Unicode 9.0, and provide Unicode UTS#51 v11.0 Emoji tokenization with the "<EMOJI>" token type.
  * TopFieldCollector can now early-terminates queries when sorting by SortField.DOC.
  * Speed up merging segments of points with data dimensions by only sorting on the indexed dimensions.
  * The KoreanTokenizer no longer splits unknown words on combining diacritics and detects script boundaries more accurately with Character#UnicodeScript#of.
  * Change LatLonShape encoding to use 4 bytes Per Dimension.
  * BufferedUpdates now uses an optimized storage for buffering docvalues updates that can save up to 80% of the heap used compared to the previous implementation and uses non-object based datastructures.
  * Moved to the default accepted overhead ratio for packet ints in DocValuesFieldUpdates yields an up-to 4x performance improvement when applying doc values updates.
  * Doc-value updates get applied faster by sorting with quicksort, rather than an in-place mergesort, which needs to perform fewer swaps.
  * Decrease I/O pressure when merging high dimensional points.

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/7_7_0/changes/Changes.html>

