Title: Apache Lucene™ 8.2.0 available
category: core/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 8.2.0.

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release is available for immediate download at:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>

### Lucene 8.2.0 Release Highlights:

#### API Changes:

  * Intervals queries has been moved from the sandbox to the queries module.

#### New Features

  * New XYShape Field and Queries for indexing and querying general cartesian geometries.
  * Snowball stemmer/analyzer for the Estonian language.
  * Provide a FeatureSortfield to allow sorting search hits by descending value of a feature.
  * Add new KoreanNumberFilter that can change Hangul character to number and process decimal point.
  * Add doc-value support to range fields.
  * Add monitor subproject (previously Luwak monitoring library) that allows a stream of documents to be matched against a set of registered queriesin an efficient manner.
  * Add a numeric range query in sandbox that takes advantage of index sorting.Add a numeric range query in sandbox that takes advantage of index sorting.

#### Optimizations

  * Use exponential search instead of binary search in IntArrayDocIdSet#advance method.
  * Use incoming thread for execution if IndexSearcher has an executor. Now caller threads execute at least one search on an index even if there is an executor provided to minimize thread context switching.
  * New storing strategy for BKD tree leaves with low cardinality that can lower storage costs and It can be used at search time to speed up queries.
  * Load frequencies lazily only when needed in BlockDocsEnum and BlockImpactsEverythingEnum.
  * Phrase queries now leverage impacts.

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_2_0/changes/Changes.html>

