Title: Apache Lucene™ 8.4.0 available
category: core/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 8.4.0.

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release is available for immediate download at:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>

### Lucene 8.4.0 Release Highlights:

  * LatLonShape now supports the "CONTAINS" relation, which enables to find all indexed shapes that contain the query shape.
  * Concurrent search is getting more efficient by allowing collectors to share information across threads in order to more efficiently skip non-competitive hits.
  * Faster FST lookups on dense nodes.
  * Postings are now decoded using SIMD instructions.
  * LRUQueryCache includes new heuristics that prevent caching from hurting latency too much.
  * LatLonShape builds a more efficient tree that is expected to translate into search speed improvements.
  * BaseDirectoryReader no longer sums up document counts across leaves eagerly, allowing for more efficient reader views that hide a subset of documents.
  * The index on top of BKD trees is now stored off-heap with MMapDirectory.
  * Simple Intervals queries support highlighting.
  * Reading DocValues can be interrupted when timeout is exceeded.

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_4_0/changes/Changes.html>