Title: Apache Lucene™ 8.7.0 available
category: core/news
URL:
save_as:

03/11/2020, Apache Lucene™ 8.7 available
The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 8.7.

Apache Lucene is a high-performance, full-featured text search engine library written entirely in Java. It is a technology suitable for nearly any application that requires full-text search, especially cross-platform.

This release contains numerous bug fixes, optimizations, and improvements, some of which are highlighted below. The release is available for immediate download at:

<http://lucene.apache.org/core/mirrors-core-latest-redir.html>

Lucene 8.7 Release Highlights:
Better compression of stored fields. Stored fields now use dictionaries in order to improve the compression ratio when there is a lot of redundancy across documents. This works for both the BEST_SPEED and the BEST_COMPRESSION modes.

Faster sorting by field. When a doc-value field is also indexed with points, Lucene now takes advantage of this points index in order to skip documents whose sort value is not competitive.

Faster flushing of stored fields when index sorting is enabled. This can significantly speed up indexing when a non-negligible amount of data is stored in the index and index sorting is enabled.

Further details of changes are available in the change log available at:
<http://lucene.apache.org/core/8_7_0/changes/Changes.html>

Please report any feedback to the mailing lists:

<http://lucene.apache.org/core/discussion.html>

Note: The Apache Software Foundation uses an extensive mirroring network for distributing releases. It is possible that the mirror you are using may not have replicated the release yet. If that is the case, please try another mirror. This also applies to Maven access.
