Title: Apache Solr 4.8.0 Available
category: solr/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 4.8.0

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform
from the Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful
full-text search, hit highlighting, faceted search, dynamic
clustering, database integration, rich document (e.g., Word, PDF)
handling, and geospatial search.  Solr is highly scalable, providing
fault tolerant distributed search and indexing, and powers the search
and navigation features of many of the world's largest internet sites.

Solr 4.8.0 is available for immediate download at:
<http://lucene.apache.org/solr/mirrors-solr-latest-redir.html>

See the [CHANGES.txt](/solr/4_8_0/changes/Changes.html)
file included with the release for a full list of details.

### Solr 4.8.0 Release Highlights:

* Apache Solr now requires Java 7 or greater (recommended is
  Oracle Java 7 or OpenJDK 7, minimum update 55; earlier versions
  have known JVM bugs affecting Solr).

* Apache Solr is fully compatible with Java 8.

* <code class="inline">&lt;fields&gt;</code> and <code class="inline">&lt;types&gt;</code> tags have been deprecated from schema.xml.
  There is no longer any reason to keep them in the schema file,
  they may be safely removed. This allows intermixing of <code class="inline">&lt;fieldType&gt;</code>,
  <code class="inline">&lt;field&gt;</code> and <code class="inline">&lt;copyField&gt;</code> definitions if desired.

* The new \{!complexphrase\} query parser supports wildcards, ORs etc.
  inside Phrase Queries.

* New Collections API CLUSTERSTATUS action reports the status of
  collections, shards, and replicas, and also lists collection
  aliases and cluster properties.

* Added managed synonym and stopword filter factories, which enable
  synonym and stopword lists to be dynamically managed via REST API.

* JSON updates now support nested child documents, enabling \{!child\}
  and \{!parent\} block join queries.

* Added ExpandComponent to expand results collapsed by the
  CollapsingQParserPlugin, as well as the parent/child relationship
  of nested child documents.

* Long-running Collections API tasks can now be executed
  asynchronously; the new REQUESTSTATUS action provides status.

* Added a hl.qparser parameter to allow you to define a query parser
  for hl.q highlight queries.

* In Solr single-node mode, cores can now be created using named
  configsets.

* New DocExpirationUpdateProcessorFactory supports computing an
  expiration date for documents from the "TTL" expression, as well as
  automatically deleting expired documents on a periodic basis.

Solr 4.8.0 also includes many other new features as well as numerous
optimizations and bugfixes of the corresponding
[Apache Lucene](/core/4_8_0/) release.

