Title: Apache Solr 4.7.0 Available
category: solr/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of
Apache Solr 4.7

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform
from the Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful
full-text search, hit highlighting, faceted search, dynamic
clustering, database integration, rich document (e.g., Word, PDF)
handling, and geospatial search.  Solr is highly scalable, providing
fault tolerant distributed search and indexing, and powers the search
and navigation features of many of the world's largest internet sites.

Solr 4.7 is available for immediate download at:
<https://solr.apache.org/mirrors-solr-latest-redir.html>

See the [CHANGES.txt](/docs/4_7_0/changes/Changes.html)
file included with the release for a full list of details.

### Solr 4.7 Release Highlights:

* A new migrate collection API to split all documents with a route key
  into another collection.

* Added support for tri-level compositeId routing.

* Admin UI - Added a new Files conf directory browser/file viewer.

* Add a QParserPlugin for Lucene's SimpleQueryParser.

* Suggest improvements: a new SuggestComponent that fully utilizes the
  Lucene suggester module; queries can now use multiple suggesters;
  Lucene's FreeTextSuggester and BlendedInfixSuggester are now supported.

* New cursorMark request param for efficient deep paging of sorted
  result sets. See <http://s.apache.org/cursorpagination>

* Add a Solr contrib that allows for building Solr indexes via Hadoop's
  MapReduce.

* Upgrade to Spatial4j 0.4. Various new options are now exposed
  automatically for an RPT field type.  See Spatial4j CHANGES & javadocs.
  <https://github.com/spatial4j/spatial4j/blob/master/CHANGES.md>

* SSL support for SolrCloud.

Solr 4.7 also includes many other new features as well as numerous
 optimizations and bugfixes.
