Title: Apache Solr 5.4.0 Available
category: solr/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 5.4.0

The release can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/solr/mirrors-solr-latest-redir.html>

### Highlights of this Solr release include:
####UI Changes
* The rearchitected Admin UI is now prominently linked to from the existing UI, and includes support for managing collections as well as creating and removing fields via the schema tab. Expect it to be default in the next release.

####API Features
* New Collections APIs for migrating from clusterstate.json to per-collection state.json and forcing the election of a leader when all replicas in a shard are down.
* A new configset management API has been added.

####Querying Features
* Filter cache is now accessible via a solr query syntax.
* ScoreJoins can now refer to a single-sharded collection that is replicated on all nodes.
* Add boost support, and 'exclude the queried document' in MoreLikeThis QParser.
* Add a 'sort' local param to the collapse QParser to support using complex sort options to select the representitive doc for each collapsed group.

####Other Features
* SolrJ now has support for connecting to Solr using basic authentication.
* Analyzing suggesters can now filter suggestions by a context field.
* JSON Facet API: add "method" param to terms/field facets to give an execution hint for what method should be used to facet.
* CloneFieldUpdateProcessorFactory now supports choosing a "dest" field name based on a regex pattern and replacement init options.
* Provide pluggable context tool support for VelocityResponseWriter.

