Title: Apache Solr™ 6.3.0 Available

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 6.3.0.

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform
from the Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful
full-text search, hit highlighting, faceted search and analytics,
rich document parsing, geospatial search, extensive REST APIs as well
as parallel SQL. Solr is enterprise grade, secure and highly scalable,
providing fault tolerant distributed search and indexing, and powers
the search and navigation features of many of the world's largest
internet sites.

Solr 6.3.0 is available for immediate download at:
<http://lucene.apache.org/solr/mirrors-solr-latest-redir.html>

### Highlights of this Solr release include:

DocValues, streaming, /export, machine learning

  * Optimize, store and deploy AI models in Solr

  * Ability to add custom streaming expressions

  * New streaming expressions such as "fetch", "executor", and "commit" added.

  * Parallel SQL accepts <, >, =, etc., symbols.

  * Support facet scoring with the scoreNodes expression

  * Retrieving docValues as stored values was sped up by using the proper leaf reader rather than ask for a global view.  In extreme cases, this leads to a 100x speedup.

Faceting:

  * facet.method=enum can bypass exact counts calculation with facet.exists=true, it just returns 1 for terms which exists in result docset

  * Add "overrequest" parameter to JSON Facet API to control amount of overrequest  on a distributed terms facet

Logging:

  * You can now set Solr's log level through environment variable SOLR_LOG_LEVEL

  * GC logs are rotated by JVM to a max of 9 files, and backed up via bin/solr scripts

  * Solr's logging verbosity at the INFO level has been greatly reduced by moving much logging to DEBUG level

  * The solr-8983-console.log file now only logs STDOUT and STDERR output, not all log4j logs as before

  * Solr's main log file, solr.log, is now written to SOLR_LOGS_DIR without changing log4j.properties

Start scripts:

  * Allow 180 seconds for shutdown before killing solr (configurable, old limit 5s) (Unix only)

  * Start scripts now exits with informative message if using wrong Java version

  * Fixed "bin/solr.cmd zk upconfig" command which was broken on windows

  * You can now ask for DEBUG logging simply with '-v' option, and for WARN logging with '-q' option

SolrCloud:

  * The DELETEREPLICA API can accept a 'count' parameter and remove "count" number of replicas from each shard if the shard name is not provided

  * The config API shows expanded useParams for request handlers inline

  * Ability to create/delete/list snapshots at collection level

  * The modify collection API now waits for the modified properties to show up in the cluster state before returning

  * Many bug fixes related to SolrCloud recovery for data safety and faster recovery times.

Security:

  * SolrJ now supports Kerberos delegation tokens

  * Pooled SSL connections were not being re-used. This is now fixed.

  * Fix for the blockUnknown property which made inter-node communication impossible

  * Support SOLR_AUTHENTICATION_OPTS and SOLR_AUTHENTICATION_CLIENT_CONFIGURER in windows bin/solr.cmd script

  * New parameter -u <user:pass> in bin/post to pass basicauth credentials

Misc changes:

  * Optimizations to lower memory allocations when indexing JSON as well as for replication between solr cloud nodes.

  * A new Excel workbook (.xlsx) response writer has been added. Use 'wt=xlsx' request parameter on a query request to enable.

See the [Solr CHANGES.txt](/solr/6_3_0/changes/Changes.html) files included
with the release for a full list of details.

