Title: Apache Solr™ 6.5.1 available
category: solr/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 6.5.1

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform from the
Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful full-text search,
hit highlighting, faceted search and analytics, rich document parsing,
geospatial search, extensive REST APIs as well as parallel SQL. Solr is
enterprise grade, secure and highly scalable, providing fault tolerant
distributed search and indexing, and powers the search and navigation features
of many of the world's largest internet sites.

Solr 6.5.1 is available for immediate download at:
<https://solr.apache.org/downloads.html>

This release includes 11 bug fixes since the 6.5.0 release. Some of the major fixes are:

* bin\solr.cmd delete and healthcheck now works again; fixed continuation chars ^

* Fix debug related NullPointerException in solr/contrib/ltr OriginalScoreFeature class.

* The JSON output of /admin/metrics is fixed to write the container as a map (SimpleOrderedMap) instead of an array (NamedList).

* On 'downnode', lots of wasteful mutations are done to ZK.

* Fix params persistence for solr/contrib/ltr (MinMax|Standard)Normalizer classes.

* The fetch() streaming expression wouldn't work if a value included query syntax chars (like :+-). Fixed, and enhanced the generated query to not pollute the queryCache.

* Disable graph query production via schema configuration <code>&lt;fieldtype ... enableGraphQueries="false"&gt;</code>. This fixes broken queries for ShingleFilter-containing query-time analyzers when request param sow=false.

* Fix indexed="false" on numeric PointFields

* SQL AVG function mis-interprets field type.

* SQL interface does not use client cache.

* edismax with sow=false fails to create dismax-per-term queries when any field is boosted.

Furthermore, this release includes Apache Lucene 6.5.1 which includes 3 bug fixes since the 6.5.0 release.

See the [Solr CHANGES.txt](/docs/6_5_1/changes/Changes.html) files included
with the release for a full list of details.

