Title: Apache Solr™ 7.0.0 available
category: solr/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 7.0.0

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform from the
Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful full-text search,
hit highlighting, faceted search and analytics, rich document parsing,
geospatial search, extensive REST APIs as well as parallel SQL. Solr is
enterprise grade, secure and highly scalable, providing fault tolerant
distributed search and indexing, and powers the search and navigation features
of many of the world's largest internet sites.

Solr 7.0.0 is available for immediate download at:
<https://lucene.apache.org/solr/mirrors-solr-latest-redir.html>

### Highlights for this Solr release include:

* Replica Types - Solr 7 supports different replica types, which handle updates differently. In addition to pure NRT operation where all replicas build an index and keep a replication log, you can now also add so called PULL replicas, achieving the read-speed optimized benefits of a master/slave setup while at the same time keeping index redundancy.

* Auto-scaling. Solr can now allocate new replicas to nodes using a new auto scaling policy framework. This framework will in future releases enable Solr to move shards around based on load, disk etc.

* Indented JSON is now the default response format for all APIs, pass wt=xml and/or indent=off to use the previous unindented XML format.

* The JSON Facet API now supports two-phase facet refinement to ensure accurate counts and statistics for facet buckets returned in distributed mode.

* Streaming Expressions adds a new statistical programming syntax for the statistical analysis of sql queries, random samples, time series and graph result sets.

* Analytics Component version 2.0, which now supports distributed collections, expressions over multivalued fields, a new JSON request language, and more.

* The new v2 API, exposed at /api/ and also supported via SolrJ, is now the preferred API, but /solr/ continues to work.

* A new '_default' configset is used if no config is specified at collection creation. The data-driven functionality of this configset indexes strings as analyzed text while at the same time copying to a '*_str' field suitable for faceting.

* Solr 7 is tested with and verified to support Java 9.

See the [Solr CHANGES.txt](/solr/7_0_0/changes/Changes.html) files included with the release for a full list of details.

