Title: Apache Solr™ 7.1.0 available
category: solr/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 7.1.0

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform from the Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful full-text search, hit highlighting, faceted search, dynamic clustering, database integration, rich document (e.g., Word, PDF) handling, and geospatial search. Solr is highly scalable, providing fault tolerant distributed search and indexing, and powers the search and navigation features of many of the world's largest internet sites.

The release is available for immediate download at:

   <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/solr/7.1.0>

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

   <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/7_1_0/changes/Changes.html>

### Highlights for this Solr release include:

 * Critical Security Update: Fix for CVE-2017-12629 which is a working 0-day exploit reported on the [public mailing list](https://s.apache.org/FJDl).

 * Auto-scaling: Solr can now move replicas automatically when a new node is added or an existing node is removed using the auto scaling policy framework introduced in 7.0

 * Auto-scaling: The 'autoAddReplicas' feature which was limited to shared file systems is now available for all file systems. It has been ported to use the new autoscaling framework internally.

 * Auto-scaling: New set-trigger, remove-trigger, set-listener, remove-listener, suspend-trigger, resume-trigger APIs

 * Auto-scaling: New /autoscaling/history API to show past autoscaling actions and cluster events

 * New JSON based Query DSL for Solr that extends JSON Request API to also support all query parsers and their nested parameters

 * JSON Facet API: min/max aggregations are now supported on single-valued date fields

 * Lucene's Geo3D (surface of sphere & ellipsoid) is now supported on spatial RPT fields by setting spatialContextFactory="Geo3D". Furthermore, this is the first time Solr has out of the box support for polygons

 * Expanded support for statistical stream evaluators such as various distributions, rank correlations, distances and more.

 * Multiple other optimizations and bug fixes

You are encouraged to thoroughly read the "Upgrade Notes" at <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/7_1_0/changes/Changes.html> or in the CHANGES.txt file accompanying the release.

Solr 7.1 also includes many other new features as well as numerous optimizations and bugfixes of the corresponding Apache Lucene release.

