Title: Apache Solr™ 7.2.0 available
category: solr/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 7.2.0

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform from the Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful full-text search, hit highlighting, faceted search, dynamic clustering, database integration, rich document (e.g., Word, PDF) handling, and geospatial search. Solr is highly scalable, providing fault tolerant distributed search and indexing, and powers the search and navigation features of many of the world's largest internet sites.

Solr 7.2.0 is available for immediate download at:

  <http://lucene.apache.org/solr/mirrors-solr-latest-redir.html>

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/7_2_0/changes/Changes.html>

### Solr 7.2.0 Release Highlights:

 * Bi-directional syncing of CDCR clusters is now supported.
 * The new synonymQueryStyle field type option allows for better scoring when terms at the same position are hyponyms/hypernyms rather than synonyms.
 * More stream evaluators, including: matrix operations; spline; derivative; regression; normalization; scaling; correlation; markov chains; time series differencing; and triangular and geometric distributions.
 * The new facet.matches parameter returns facet buckets only for terms that match a regular expression.
 * New Autoscaling features: the autoscaling/suggestions API end-point; the UTILIZENODE command, which moves replicas according to autoscaling policies and preferences; and the Autoscaling set-property command.

