Title: Apache Solr™ 8.0.0 available
category: solr/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 8.0.0

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform from the
Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful full-text search,
hit highlighting, faceted search, dynamic clustering, database integration, rich document
(e.g., Word, PDF) handling, and geospatial search. Solr is highly scalable, providing fault
tolerant distributed search and indexing, and powers the search and navigation features of
many of the world's largest internet sites.

Solr 8.0.0 is available for immediate download at:
  <https://solr.apache.org/downloads.html>

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

  <https://solr.apache.org/8_0_0/changes/Changes.html>

### Solr 8.0.0 Release Highlights

* Solr now uses HTTP/2 for inter-node communication to attain greater efficiency.
Details:  Solr is switching from Apache HttpClient to Jetty Client for adding HTTP/2 support.
Most frequent inter-communication between nodes like indexing and query are now sent in HTTP/2.
HTTP/1.1 practically allows only one outstanding request per TCP connection this means that for sending multiple requests at the same time multiple TCP connections must be established.
This leads to waste of resources on both-sides and long GC-pause.
Solr 8 with HTTP/2 support overcomes that problem by allowing multiple requests can be sent in parallel using a same TCP connection.

* Nested documents (AKA child documents or block join) is significantly improved.
Most improvements come from storing and leveraging more information about the relationships in the index, like the named relationship between a child and its parent.
This information is used by the [child] doc transformer to return children in nested form instead of flat.
There is plenty more that can be done with this in the future.
Another key improvement is that nested documents can be deleted or replaced in a natural way without orphaning child documents; although care is still needed with delete-by-query.

Being a major release, Solr 8 removes many deprecated APIs, changes various parameter defaults and behavior. Some changes may require a re-index of your content.
You are thus encouraged to thoroughly read the "Upgrade Notes" at:

  <https://solr.apache.org/8_0_0/changes/Changes.html>

Solr 8.0 also includes many other new features as well as numerous optimizations and bugfixes of the corresponding Apache Lucene release:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_0_0/changes/Changes.html>

