Title: Apache Solr™ 8.2.0 available
category: solr/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 8.2.0

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform from the Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful full-text search, hit highlighting, faceted search, dynamic clustering, database integration, rich document (e.g., Word, PDF) handling, and geospatial search. Solr is highly scalable, providing fault tolerant distributed search and indexing, and powers the search and navigation features of many of the world's largest internet sites.

Solr 8.2.0 is available for immediate download at:
  <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/downloads.html>

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/8_2_0/changes/Changes.html>

### Solr 8.2.0 Release Highlights

#### New features

  * Add an update param failOnVersionConflicts=false to updates not fail when there is a version conflict
  * Add facet2D Streaming Expression.
  * Preferred replicas on nodes with same system properties as the query master
  * OpenTracing support for Solr
  * Raw index data analysis tool (extension of COLSTATUS collection command).
  * Add recNum Stream Evaluator.
  * Allow zplot to visualize 2D clusters and convex hulls.
  * Add a field type for Estonian language to default managed_schema, document about Estonian language analysis in Solr Ref Guide

#### Bug Fixes

  * Intermittent 401's for internode requests with basicauth enabled.
  * In 8.1, Atomic Updates were broken (NPE) when the schema declared the new _nest_path_ field even if you weren't using nested docs. In-place updates were not affected (worked)
  * Fix atomic update encoding issue for UUID, enum, bool, and binary fields.
  * Impossible to delete a collection with the same name as an existing alias. This fixes also a bug inREINDEXCOLLECTION when used with removeSource=true which could lead to a data loss.

Solr 8.2.0 also includes many other new features as well as numerous optimizations and bugfixes of the corresponding Apache Lucene release:

  <http://lucene.apache.org/core/8_2_0/changes/Changes.html>

