Title: Apache Solr™ 7.7.0 available
category: solr/news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 7.7.0

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform from the
Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful full-text search,
hit highlighting, faceted search, dynamic clustering, database integration, rich document
(e.g., Word, PDF) handling, and geospatial search. Solr is highly scalable, providing fault
tolerant distributed search and indexing, and powers the search and navigation features of
many of the world's largest internet sites.

Solr 7.7.0 is available for immediate download at:
  <https://solr.apache.org/downloads.html>

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features and changes:

  <https://solr.apache.org/7_7_0/changes/Changes.html>

### Solr 7.7.0 Release Highlights:

  * URI Too Long with large streaming expressions in SolrJ.
  * A failure while reloading a SolrCore can result in the SolrCore not being closed.
  * Spellcheck parameters not working in new UI.
  * New Admin UI Query does not URL-encode the query produced in the URL box.
  * Rule-base Authorization plugin skips authorization if querying node does not have collection replica.
  * Solr installer fails on SuSE linux.
  * Fix incorrect SOLR_SSL_KEYSTORE_TYPE variable in solr start script.
  * JSON 'terms' Faceting now supports a 'prelim_sort' option to use when initially selecting the top ranking buckets, prior to the final 'sort' option used after refinement.
  * Add a login page to Admin UI, with initial support for Basic Auth and Kerberos.
  * New Node-level health check handler at /admin/info/healthcheck and /node/health paths that checks if the node is live, connected to zookeeper and not shutdown.
  * It is now possible to configure a host whitelist for distributed search.

