Title: Apache Solr™ 8.5.0 available
category: solr/news
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 8.5.0.

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform from the Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful full-text search, hit highlighting, faceted search, dynamic clustering, database integration, rich document handling, and geospatial search. Solr is highly scalable, providing fault tolerant distributed search and indexing, and powers the search and navigation features of many of the world's largest internet sites.

Solr 8.5.0 is available for immediate download at:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/downloads.html>

### Solr 8.5.0 Release Highlights:

 * A new queries property of JSON Request API let to declare queries in Query DSL format and refer to them by their names.
 * A new command line tool bin/postlogs allows you to index Solr logs into a Solr collection. This is helpful for log analysis and troubleshooting. Documentation is not yet integrated into the Solr Reference Guide, but is available in a branch via GitHub: https://github.com/apache/lucene-solr/blob/visual-guide/solr/solr-ref-guide/src/logs.adoc.
 * A new stream decorator delete() is available to help solve some issues with traditional delete-by-query, which can be expensive in large indexes.
 * Solr now has the ability to run with a Java Security Manager enabled.

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of changes:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/8_5_0/changes/Changes.html>

Solr 8.5.0 also includes improvements and bugfixes in the corresponding Apache Lucene release:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_5_0/changes/Changes.html>
