Title: Apache Solr™ 8.4.1 available
category: solr/news
save_as: 
Notice:    Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
           or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
           distributed with this work for additional information
           regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
           to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
           "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
           with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
           .
             https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
           .
           Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
           software distributed under the License is distributed on an
           "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
           KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
           specific language governing permissions and limitations
           under the License.

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 8.4.1.

Solr is the popular, blazing fast, open source NoSQL search platform from the Apache Lucene project. Its major features include powerful full-text search, hit highlighting, faceted search, dynamic clustering, database integration, rich document handling, and geospatial search. Solr is highly scalable, providing fault tolerant distributed search and indexing, and powers the search and navigation features of many of the world's largest internet sites.

Solr 8.4.1 is available for immediate download at:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/downloads.html>

### Solr 8.4.1 Release Highlights:

  * Fix for overseer serialization to support rolling upgrade (broken since 8.4)
  * Fix for SSL support with SOLR_SSL_NEED_CLIENT_AUTH (broken since 8.2)
  * Package manager to store public keys in a special "trusted" location instead of in ZooKeeper

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of changes:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/8_4_1/changes/Changes.html>

Solr 8.4.1 also includes  and bugfixes in the corresponding Apache Lucene release:

  <https://lucene.apache.org/core/8_4_1/changes/Changes.html>