Title: Apache Solr becomes an Apache TLP
category: solr/news
save_as:

The Apache Software Foundation's board today established Solr as a Top Level Project (TLP).
Solr has been a Lucene sub-project since its incubation in 2006, governed by the Lucene PMC,
and has since the 3.1 release also shared source code repository with Lucene.

### What's the background?

The change was proposed by members of the Lucene PMC, and a vote in June 2020 decided
that Solr would be promoted to TLP. Later, the Lucene PMC decided that the Solr project
would be bootstrapped with the same set of committers and PMC members as the "mother" Lucene project.

### How does this affect users?

The Solr software will not change at all as a result of this, but users will see these changes:

1. Solr gets a new website at [solr.apache.org](http://solr.apache.org/)
2. Solr gets a new download location in the mirrors
3. The email address of the users mailing-list will change, but subscribers will be moved automatically

### How does this affect developers?

Developers will have to do a number of things to adapt to the change

1. Subscribe to the new mailing lists. See [lists.apache.org](https://lists.apache.org/list.html?dev@solr.apache.org) for instructions
2. Start using the new git location by cloning or defining a new git remote
3. Realize that lucene is now a build dependency of Solr
4. Backported bug fixes for 8.x versions must be submitted to the Lucene project, that continue to release bugfix releases of the 8.x line

Please go to the new website <http://solr.apache.org/> to read more.
