Title: Apache Solr™ 9.8.1 available
category: solr/news
save_as:

The Solr PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 9.8.1.

Solr is the blazing-fast, open source, multi-modal search platform built on Apache Lucene. It powers full-text, vector, analytics, and geospatial search at many of the world's largest organizations. Other major features include Kubernetes and docker integration, streaming, highlighting, faceting, and spellchecking.

Solr 9.8.1 is available for immediate download at:

  <https://solr.apache.org/downloads.html>

### Solr 9.8.1 Changes:

* Disabled the new/experimental multiThreaded=true more deeply via solr.xml's indexSearcherExecutorThreads defaulting to 0 now.  It doesn't yet perform well.
* Fixed wt=prometheus (metrics) format compliance issue relating to duplicate TYPE lines
* Fixed LBHttp2SolrClient (in SolrCloud & SolrJ) that silently failed to complete async requests in certain scenarios. This could cause multi-sharded query requests to hang indefinitely.
* Fixed a SolrCloud bug that could cause long leader elections to leave PULL replicas in DOWN state forever.
* Fixed a regression from 9.x:  Faceting on multi-valued EnumFieldType.
* Fixed an issue in Solr sharded queries when the parameter keys only vary by case
* Fixed a regression from 9.8.0: SolrCloud Replica Placement Plugins and Basic Auth could produce errors
* Improved delete-by-query error message when the query parser doesn't support being used in this way (joins).
* Optimization:  Use less memory when a large reRankDocs parameter is provided.  Was an OOM risk.


Please refer to the Upgrade Notes in the Solr Ref Guide for information on upgrading from previous Solr versions:

  <https://solr.apache.org/guide/solr/9_8/upgrade-notes/solr-upgrade-notes.html>

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of bugfixes:

  <https://solr.apache.org/9_8_1/changes/Changes.html>

## Thanks to all contributors
Matthew Biscocho, David Smiley, Houston Putman, Varun Thacker, Luke Kot-Zaniewski, Chris Hostetter, Thomas Wöckinger, Yue Yu, JiaBao Gao, Jason Gerlowski, Sanjay Dutt, Christine Poerschke, Jeanie Lam
