Title: Apache Solr™ 9.9.0 available
category: solr/news
save_as:

The Solr PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Solr 9.9.0.

Solr is the blazing-fast, open source, multi-modal search platform built on Apache Lucene. It powers full-text, vector, analytics, and geospatial search at many of the world's largest organizations. Other major features include Kubernetes and docker integration, streaming, highlighting, faceting, and spellchecking.

Solr 9.9.0 is available for immediate download at:

  <https://solr.apache.org/downloads.html>

### Solr 9.9.0 Release Highlights:

 * Solr now supports encoding text to vectors during indexing using external LLM services.
 * More query capabilities in Fuzzy queries and Rank queries.
 * Function queries can now be expressed with a numerical subset of JavaScript and access the fields and score.  Powered by Lucene's Expressions module.
 * Solr now supports Jetty's Graceful Shutdown module (via SOLR_JETTY_GRACEFUL=true) to prevent client connections from being abruptly terminated on orderly shutdown.
 * PKI Auth now utilizes caching, and is much more performant for high-throughput clusters.
 * Optimizations in certain queries: MatchAllDocs (*:*), rows=0, function queries in "fl".
 * Numerous optimization and bug fixes for SolrJ clients.
 * Performance issues in ParallelHttpShardHandler have been fixed.

Please refer to the Upgrade Notes in the Solr Ref Guide for information on upgrading from previous Solr versions:

  <https://solr.apache.org/guide/solr/9_9/upgrade-notes/solr-upgrade-notes.html>

Please read CHANGES.txt for a full list of new features, changes and bugfixes:

  <https://solr.apache.org/9_9_0/changes/Changes.html>

#### Thanks to all contributors

David Smiley, Houston Putman, Jason Gerlowski, Pierre Salagnac, Kevin Risden, Matthew Biscocho, hossman, Luke Kot-Zaniewski, Christine Poerschke, Siju Varghese, Rahul Goswami, Bruno Roustant, Renato Haeberli, Alessandro Benedetti, Eric Pugh, Lamine Idjeraoui, Gus Heck, Ryan Ernst, Torsten Koster, Mark Miller, Jude Muriithi, Martin Anzinger, Yura Korolov, Aparna Suresh, Alex Deparvu, Ilaria Petreti, Anna Ruggero, Uwe Schindler, Tyler Bertrand, Sanjay Dutt, Paul Blanchaert, Gaurav Tuli
