Title: Apache Lucene 4.5 and Apache Solr<span style="vertical-align: super; font-size: xx-small">TM</span> 4.5 available

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the availability
of Apache Lucene 4.5 and Apache Solr 4.5.

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/core/mirrors-core-latest-redir.html>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/solr/mirrors-solr-latest-redir.html>

See the [Lucene CHANGES.txt](/core/4_5_0/changes/Changes.html) and
[Solr CHANGES.txt](/solr/4_5_0/changes/Changes.html) files included
with the release for a full list of details.

### Highlights of the Lucene release include:

* Added support for missing values to DocValues fields through
  AtomicReader.getDocsWithField.

* Lucene 4.5 has a new Lucene45Codec with Lucene45DocValues, supporting missing
  values and with most datastructures residing off-heap.

* New in-memory DocIdSet implementations which are especially better than
  FixedBitSet on small sets: WAH8DocIdSet, PFORDeltaDocIdSet and EliasFanoDocIdSet.

* CachingWrapperFilter now caches filters with WAH8DocIdSet by default, which
  has the same memory usage as FixedBitSet in the worst case but is smaller and faster on small sets.

* TokenStreams now set the position increment in end(), so we can handle trailing holes.

* IndexWriter no longer clones the given IndexWriterConfig.

Lucene 4.5 also includes numerous optimizations and bugfixes.

### Highlights of the Solr release include:

* Custom sharding support, including the ability to shard by field.

* DocValue improvements: single valued fields no longer require a default
  value, allowiing dynamicFields to contain doc values, as well as
  sortMissingFirst and sortMissingLast on docValue fields.

* Ability to store solr.xml in ZooKeeper.

* Multithreaded faceting.

* CloudSolrServer can now route updates directly to the appropriate shard
  leader.

Solr 4.5 also includes numerous optimizations and bugfixes.
