Title: Apache Lucene 4.9.0 and Apache Solr 4.9.0 Available
category: news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the availability
of Apache Lucene 4.9.0 and Apache Solr 4.9.0.

Lucene can be downloaded from <https://lucene.apache.org/core/mirrors-core-latest-redir.html>
and Solr can be downloaded from <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/mirrors-solr-latest-redir.html>

See the [Lucene CHANGES.txt](/core/4_9_0/changes/Changes.html) and
[Solr CHANGES.txt](/solr/4_9_0/changes/Changes.html) files included
with the release for a full list of details.

### Highlights of the Lucene release include:

* New Terms.getMin/Max methods to retrieve the lowest and highest
  terms per field.

* New IDVersionPostingsFormat, optimized for ID lookups that associate
  a monotonically increasing version per ID.

* Atomic update of a set of doc values fields.

* Numerous optimizations for doc values search-time performance.

* New (default) Lucene49NormsFormat to better compress certain cases
  such as very short fields.

* New SORTED_NUMERIC docvalues type for efficient processing of
  multi-valued numeric fields.

* Indexer passes previous token stream for easier reuse.

* MoreLikeThis accepts multiple values per field.

* All classes that estimate their RAM usage now implement a new
  Accountable interface.

* Lucene files are now written by (File)OutputStream on all platforms,
  completely disallowing seeking with simplified IO APIs.

* Improve the confusing error message when MMapDirectory cannot create
  a new map.

### Highlights of the Solr release include:

* Numerous optimizations for doc values search-time performance

* Allow a client application to request the minium achieved replication
  factor for an update request (single or batch) by sending an optional
  parameter "min_rf".

* Query re-ranking support with the new ReRankingQParserPlugin.

* A new [child ...] DocTransformer for optionally including Block-Join
  decendent documents inline in the results of a search.

* A new (default) Lucene49NormsFormat to better compress certain cases
  such as very short fields.

