Title: Apache Lucene 4.8.0 and Apache Solr 4.8.0 Available
category: news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the availability
of Apache Lucene 4.8.0 and Apache Solr 4.8.0.

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/core/mirrors-core-latest-redir.html>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/solr/mirrors-solr-latest-redir.html>

Both releases now require Java 7 or greater (recommended is
Oracle Java 7 or OpenJDK 7, minimum update 55; earlier versions
have known JVM bugs affecting Lucene and Solr). In addition,
both are fully compatible with Java 8.

See the [Lucene CHANGES.txt](/core/4_8_0/changes/Changes.html) and
[Solr CHANGES.txt](/solr/4_8_0/changes/Changes.html) files included
with the release for a full list of details.

### Highlights of the Lucene release include:

* All index files now store end-to-end checksums, which are
  now validated during merging and reading. This ensures that
  corruptions caused by any bit-flipping hardware problems or bugs
  in the JVM can be detected earlier.  For full detection be sure
  to enable all checksums during merging (it's disabled by default).

* Lucene has a new Rescorer/QueryRescorer API to perform second-pass
  rescoring or reranking of search results using more expensive scoring
  functions after first-pass hit collection.

* AnalyzingInfixSuggester now supports near-real-time autosuggest.

* Simplified impact-sorted postings (using SortingMergePolicy and
  EarlyTerminatingCollector) to use Lucene's Sort class
  to express the sort order.

* Bulk scoring and normal iterator-based scoring were separated,
  so some queries can do bulk scoring more effectively.

* Switched to MurmurHash3 to hash terms during indexing.

* IndexWriter now supports updating of binary doc value fields.

* HunspellStemFilter now uses 10 to 100x less RAM. It also loads
  all known OpenOffice dictionaries without error.

* Lucene now also fsyncs the directory metadata on commits, if the
  operating system and file system allow it (Linux, MacOSX are
  known to work).

* Lucene now uses Java 7 file system functions under the hood,
  so index files can be deleted on Windows, even when readers are
  still open.

* A serious bug in NativeFSLockFactory was fixed, which could
  allow multiple IndexWriters to acquire the same lock.  The
  lock file is no longer deleted from the index directory
  even when the lock is not held.

### Highlights of the Solr release include:

* <code class="inline">&lt;fields&gt;</code> and <code class="inline">&lt;types&gt;</code> tags have been deprecated from schema.xml.
  There is no longer any reason to keep them in the schema file,
  they may be safely removed. This allows intermixing of <code class="inline">&lt;fieldType&gt;</code>,
  <code class="inline">&lt;field&gt;</code> and <code class="inline">&lt;copyField&gt;</code> definitions if desired.

* The new \{!complexphrase\} query parser supports wildcards, ORs etc.
  inside Phrase Queries.

* New Collections API CLUSTERSTATUS action reports the status of
  collections, shards, and replicas, and also lists collection
  aliases and cluster properties.

* Added managed synonym and stopword filter factories, which enable
  synonym and stopword lists to be dynamically managed via REST API.

* JSON updates now support nested child documents, enabling \{!child\}
  and \{!parent\} block join queries.

* Added ExpandComponent to expand results collapsed by the
  CollapsingQParserPlugin, as well as the parent/child relationship
  of nested child documents.

* Long-running Collections API tasks can now be executed
  asynchronously; the new REQUESTSTATUS action provides status.

* Added a hl.qparser parameter to allow you to define a query parser
  for hl.q highlight queries.

* In Solr single-node mode, cores can now be created using named
  configsets.

* New DocExpirationUpdateProcessorFactory supports computing an
  expiration date for documents from the "TTL" expression, as well as
  automatically deleting expired documents on a periodic basis.


