Title: Apache Lucene 5.4.0 and Apache Solr 5.4.0 Available
category: news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 5.4.0 and Apache Solr 5.4.0

Lucene can be downloaded from <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/5.4.0>
and Solr can be downloaded from <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/solr/5.4.0>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:
####API Changes
* Query.getBoost and Query.setBoost are deprecated in favour of the new BoostQuery
* The Filter class is deprecated in favour of FILTER clauses in a BooleanQuery
* DefaultSimilarity has been renamed to ClassicSimilarity to prepare for the move to BM25 in Lucene 6

####New features
* New Serbian token filter
* New DecimalDigitFilter, to fold unicode digits to latin digits
* New UnicodeWhitespaceTokenizer, that uses Unicode's whitespace definition and splits on NBSP
* New GeoPointDistanceRangeQuery to search for geo-points within a ring
* Query caching is now enabled by default in IndexSearcher, use IndexSearcher.setQueryCache(null) to disable

####Optimizations
* MatchAllDocsQuery got faster
* Doc values now use less memory for multi-valued fields and less disk in case of sparse fields
* Two-phase iterators got a match cost API so that the costly bits can be checked last

####Bug fixes
* PatternTokenizer no longer hangs onto heap sized to the maximum input string it's ever seen.

### Highlights of this Solr release include:
####UI Changes
* The rearchitected Admin UI is now prominently linked to from the existing UI, and includes support for managing collections as well as creating and removing fields via the schema tab. Expect it to be default in the next release.

####API Features
* New Collections APIs for migrating from clusterstate.json to per-collection state.json and forcing the election of a leader when all replicas in a shard are down.
* A new configset management API has been added.

####Querying Features
* Filter cache is now accessible via a solr query syntax.
* ScoreJoins can now refer to a single-sharded collection that is replicated on all nodes.
* Add boost support, and 'exclude the queried document' in MoreLikeThis QParser.
* Add a 'sort' local param to the collapse QParser to support using complex sort options to select the representitive doc for each collapsed group.

####Other Features
* SolrJ now has support for connecting to Solr using basic authentication.
* Analyzing suggesters can now filter suggestions by a context field.
* JSON Facet API: add "method" param to terms/field facets to give an execution hint for what method should be used to facet.
* CloneFieldUpdateProcessorFactory now supports choosing a "dest" field name based on a regex pattern and replacement init options.
* Provide pluggable context tool support for VelocityResponseWriter.

