Title: Apache Lucene 5.2.0 and Apache Solr 5.2.0 Available

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the availability
of Apache Lucene 5.2.0 and Apache Solr 5.2.0.

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/5.2.0>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/solr/5.2.0>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

* Span queries now share document conjunction/intersection code with boolean queries, and use two-phased iterators for faster intersection by avoiding loading positions in certain cases.

* Added two-phase support to SpanNotQuery, and SpanPositionCheckQuery and its subclasses: SpanPositionRangeQuery, SpanPayloadCheckQuery, SpanNearPayloadCheckQuery, SpanFirstQuery.

* Added a new query time join to the join module that uses global ordinals, which is faster for subsequent joins between reopens.

* New CompositeSpatialStrategy combines speed of RPT with accuracy of SDV. Includes optimized Intersect predicate to avoid many geometry checks. Uses TwoPhaseIterator.

* New LimitTokenOffsetFilter that limits tokens to those before a configured maximum start offset.

* New spatial PackedQuadPrefixTree, a generally more efficient choice than QuadPrefixTree, especially for high precision shapes. When used, you should typically disable RPT's pruneLeafyBranches option.

* Expressions now support bindings keys that look like zero arg functions

* Add SpanWithinQuery and SpanContainingQuery that return spans inside of / containing another spans.

* New Spatial "Geo3d" API with partial Spatial4j integration. It is a set of shapes implemented using 3D planar geometry for calculating spatial relations on the surface of a sphere. Shapes include Point, BBox, Circle, Path (buffered line string), and Polygon.

* Various bugfixes and optimizations since the 5.1.0 release.

### Highlights of this Solr release include:

* Restore API allows restoring a core from an index backup.

* JSON Facet API
    * unique() is now implemented for numeric and date fields
    * Optional flatter form via a "type" parameter
    * Added support for "mincount" parameter in range facets to suppress buckets less than that count
    * Multi-select faceting support for the Facet Module via the "excludeTags" parameter which disregards any matching tagged filters for that facet.
    * hll() facet function for distributed cardinality via HyperLogLog algorithm.
    See examples at http://yonik.com/solr-count-distinct/

* A new "facet.range.method" parameter to let users choose how to do range faceting between an implementation based on filters (previous algorithm, using "facet.range.method=filter") or DocValues ("facet.range.method=dv")

* Rule-based Replica assignment during collection, shard, and replica creation.

* Stats component:
    * New 'cardinality' option for stats.field, uses HyperLogLog to efficiently estimate the cardinality of a field w/bounded RAM. Blog post: https://lucidworks.com/blog/hyperloglog-field-value-cardinality-stats/
    * stats.field now supports individual local params for 'countDistinct' and 'distinctValues'. 'calcdistinct' is still supported as an alias for both options.

* Solr security
    * Authentication and Authorization frameworks that define interfaces, and mechanisms to create, load, and use authorization/authentication plugins have been added.
    * A Kerberos authentication plugin which would allow running a Kerberized Solr setup.

* Solr Streaming Expressions
   See https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/solr/Streaming+Expressions

* bin/post (and SimplePostTool in -Dauto=yes mode) now sends rather than skips files without a known content type, as "application/octet-stream", provided it still is in the allowed filetypes setting.

* HDFS transaction log replication factor is now configurable

* A cluster-wide property can now be be added/edited/deleted using the zkcli script and doesn't require a running Solr instance.

* New spatial RptWithGeometrySpatialField, based on CompositeSpatialStrategy, which blends RPT indexes for speed with serialized geometry for accuracy.  Includes a Lucene segment based in-memory shape cache.

* Refactored Admin UI using AngularJS. It isn't the default, but a parallel UI interface in this release.

* Solr has internally been upgraded to use Jetty 9.

Both releases contain a number of new features, bug fixes, and optimizations.

See the [Lucene CHANGES.txt](/core/5_2_0/changes/Changes.html) and
[Solr CHANGES.txt](/solr/5_2_0/changes/Changes.html) files included
with the release for a full list of details.

