Title: Apache Lucene 6.0.0 Available

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 6.0.0 and Apache Solr 6.0.0

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/6.0.0>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/solr/6.0.0>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

  * Java 8 is the minimum Java version required.

  * Dimensional points, replacing legacy numeric fields, provides fast and space-efficient support for both single- and multi-dimension range and shape filtering.  This includes numeric (int, float, long, double), InetAddress, BigInteger and binary range filtering, as well as geo-spatial shape search over indexed 2D LatLonPoints.  See [this blog post](https://www.elastic.co/blog/lucene-points-6.0) for details.  Dependent classes and modules (e.g., MemoryIndex, Spatial Strategies, Join module) have been refactored to use new point types.

  * Lucene classification module now works on Lucene Documents using a KNearestNeighborClassifier or SimpleNaiveBayesClassifier.

  * The spatial module no longer depends on third-party libraries. Previous spatial classes have been moved to a new spatial-extras module.

  * Spatial4j has been updated to a new 0.6 version hosted by locationtech.

  * TermsQuery performance boost by a more aggressive default query caching policy.

  * IndexSearcher's default Similarity is now changed to BM25Similarity.

  * Easier method of defining custom CharTokenizer instances.

### Highlights of this Solr release include:

  * Improved defaults for "Similarity" used in Solr, in order to provide better default experience for new users.

  * Improved "Similarity" defaults for users upgrading: DefaultSimilarityFactory has been removed, implicit default Similarity has been changed to SchemaSimilarityFactory, and SchemaSimilarityFactory has been modified to use BM25Similarity as the default for field types that do not explicitly declare a Similarity.

  * Deprecated GET methods for schema are now accessible through the bulk API. The output has less details and is not backward compatible.

  * Users should set useDocValuesAsStored="false" to preserve sort order on multi-valued fields that have both stored="true" and docValues="true".

  * Formatted date-times are more consistent with ISO-8601. BC dates are now better supported since they are now formatted with a leading '-'. AD years after 9999 have a leading '+'. Parse exceptions have been improved.

  * Deprecated SolrServer and subclasses have been removed, use SolrClient instead.

  * The deprecated <nrtMode> configuration in solrconfig.xml has been removed. Users must remove it from solrconfig.xml.

  * SolrClient.shutdown() has been removed, use SolrClient.close() instead.

  * The deprecated zkCredientialsProvider element in solrcloud section of solr.xml is now removed. Use the correct spelling (zkCredentialsProvider) instead.

  * Added support for executing Parallel SQL queries across SolrCloud collections. Includes StreamExpression support and a new JDBC Driver for the SQL Interface.

  * New features and capabilities added to the streaming API.

  * Added support for SELECT DISTINCT queries to the SQL interface.

  * New GraphQuery to enable graph traversal as a query operator.

  * New support for Cross Data Center Replication consisting of active/passive replication for separate SolrClouds hosted in separate data centers.

  * Filter support added to Real-time get.

  * Column alias support added to the Parallel SQL Interface.

  * New command added to switch between non/secure mode in zookeeper.

  * Now possible to use IP fragments in replica placement rules.

