Title: Apache Lucene 6.5.1 and Apache Solr 6.5.1 Available

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 6.5.1 and Apache Solr 6.5.1.

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/6.5.1>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/solr/6.5.1>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

  * Fixed join queries to not reference IndexReaders, as it could cause leaks if they are cached.

  * Made LRUQueryCache delegate the scoreSupplier method.

  * Fixed index sorting to work with sparse numeric and binary docvalues field

### Highlights of this Solr release include:

  * bin\solr.cmd delete and healthcheck now works again; fixed continuation chars ^

  * Fix debug related NullPointerException in solr/contrib/ltr OriginalScoreFeature class.

  * The JSON output of /admin/metrics is fixed to write the container as a map (SimpleOrderedMap) instead of an array (NamedList).

  * On 'downnode', lots of wasteful mutations are done to ZK.

  * Fix params persistence for solr/contrib/ltr (MinMax|Standard)Normalizer classes.

  * The fetch() streaming expression wouldn't work if a value included query syntax chars (like :+-). Fixed, and enhanced the generated query to not pollute the queryCache.

  * Disable graph query production via schema configuration <fieldtype ... enableGraphQueries="false">. This fixes broken queries for ShingleFilter-containing query-time analyzers when request param sow=false.

  * Fix indexed="false" on numeric PointFields

  * SQL AVG function mis-interprets field type.

  * SQL interface does not use client cache.

  * edismax with sow=false fails to create dismax-per-term queries when any field is boosted.

See the [Lucene CHANGES.txt](/core/6_5_1/changes/Changes.html) and
[Solr CHANGES.txt](/solr/6_5_1/changes/Changes.html) files included
with the release for a full list of details.

