Title: Apache Lucene 6.4.0 and Apache Solr 6.4.0 Available
category: news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 6.4.0 and Apache Solr 6.4.0.

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/6.4.0>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/solr/6.4.0>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

  * Lucene's best efforts to un-map memory mapped files with "MMapDirectory" now work with the latest Java9 early access builds

  * A new similarity "BooleanSimilarity" that gives terms a score that is equal to their query boost

  * The axiomatic family of similarities (6 in total) based on https://www.eecis.udel.edu/~hfang/pubs/sigir05-axiom.pdf

  * A new token filter "SynonymGraphFilter" that outputs a correct graph structure for multi-token synonyms at query time

  * Graph token streams, such as those produced by the "SynonymGraphFilter", are now handled accurately by query parsers

  * A new collector "DocValuesStatsCollector" gives the ability to compute statistics on DocValues field

  * It is now possible to filter "SortedDocValues" and "SortedSetDocValues" terms enum with a compiled automaton

  * The "UnifiedHighlighter" can now highlight fields with queries that don't necessarily refer to that field

  * DrillSideways can now run queries concurrently

  * Index sorting now supports sorting on multi-valued fields using MIN, MAX, etc. selectors

  * Points do not store the implicit split dimension in the 1-dimension case. This saves between 6% memory for the largest types such an InetAddressPoint to 33% for the smaller types such as HalfFloatPoint.

  * The BKD in-memory index for dimensional points now uses a compressed format, using substantially less RAM in some cases

  * The BKD writing now buffers each leaf block in heap before writing to disk, giving a small speedup in points-heavy use cases

  * "TermAutomatonQuery" now rewrites to more efficient queries when possible

### Highlights of this Solr release include:

Streaming:

  * Addition of a HavingStream to Streaming API and Streaming Expressions

  * Addition of a priority Streaming Expression

  * Streaming expressions now support collection aliases

Machine Learning:

  * Configurable Learning-To-Rank (LTR) support: upload feature definitions, extract feature values, upload your own machine learnt models and use them to rerank search results.

Faceting:

  * Added "param" query type to facet domain filter specification to obtain filters via query parameters

  * Any facet command can be filtered using a new parameter filter. Example:  { type:terms, field:category, filter:"user:yonik" }

Scripts / Command line:

  * A new command-line tool to manage the snapshots functionality

  * bin/solr and bin/solr.cmd now use mkroot command

SolrCloud / SolrJ

  * LukeResponse now supports dynamic fields

  * Solrj client now supports hierarchical clusters and other topics marker

  * Collection backup/restore are extensible.

Security:

  * Support Secure Impersonation / Proxy User for Solr authentication

  * Key Store type can be specified in solr.in.sh file for SSL

  * New generic authentication plugins: 'HadoopAuthPlugin' and 'ConfigurableInternodeAuthHadoopPlugin' that delegate all functionality to Hadoop authentication framework

Query / QueryParser / Highlighting:

  * A new highlighter: The Unified Highlighter.  Try it via `hl.method=unified`; many popular highlighting parameters / features are supported.  It's the highest performing highlighter, especially for large documents.  Highlighting phrase queries and exotic queries are supported equally as well as the Original Highlighter (aka the default/standard one).  Please use this new highlighter and report issues since it will likely become the default one day.

  * Leading wildcard in complexphrase query parser are now accepted and optimized with the `ReversedWildcardFilterFactory` when it's provided

Metrics:

  * Use metrics-jvm library to instrument jvm internals such as GC, memory usage and others.

  * A lot of metrics have been added to the collection: index merges, index store I/Os, query, update, core admin, core load thread pools, shard replication, tlog replay and replicas

  * A new /admin/metrics API to return all metrics collected by Solr via API.

Misc changes:

  * The new config parameter 'maxRamMB'can now limit the memory consumed by the FastLRUCache

  * A new document processor 'SkipExistingDocumentsProcessor' that skips duplicate inserts and ignores updates to missing docs

  * FieldCache information fetched via the mbeans handler or seen via the UI now displays the total size used.

  * A new config flag 'enable' allows to enable/disable any cache

Please note, this release cannot be built from source with Java 8 update 121,
use an earlier version instead! This is caused by a bug introduced into the
Javadocs tool shipped with that update. The workaround was too late for this
Lucene release. Of course, you can use the binary artifacts.

See the [Lucene CHANGES.txt](/core/6_4_0/changes/Changes.html) and
[Solr CHANGES.txt](/solr/6_4_0/changes/Changes.html) files included
with the release for a full list of details.

