Title: Apache Lucene 7.2.0 and Apache Solr 7.2.0 Available
category: news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 7.2.0 and Apache Solr 7.2.0.

Lucene can be downloaded from <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/7.2.0>
and Solr can be downloaded from <https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/solr/7.2.0>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

 * Specific query implementations can now opt out of caching.
 * TopFieldDocCollector can now early terminate collection of matches when the index is sorted and the total hit count is not requested.
 * IndexWriter#flushNextBuffer gives more fine-grained control over the memory usage of IndexWriter.
 * Fixed document accounting in IndexWriter.
 * Query scores can be exposed in a ValuesSource using DoubleValuesSource.fromQuery().

### Highlights of this Solr release include:

 * Bi-directional syncing of CDCR clusters is now supported.
 * The new synonymQueryStyle field type option allows for better scoring when terms at the same position are hyponyms/hypernyms rather than synonyms.
 * More stream evaluators, including: matrix operations; spline; derivative; regression; normalization; scaling; correlation; markov chains; time series differencing; and triangular and geometric distributions.
 * The new facet.matches parameter returns facet buckets only for terms that match a regular expression.
 * New Autoscaling features: the autoscaling/suggestions API end-point; the UTILIZENODE command, which moves replicas according to autoscaling policies and preferences; and the Autoscaling set-property command.

