Title: Apache Lucene 7.0.0 and Apache Solr 7.0.0 Available

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 7.0.0 and Apache Solr 7.0.0.

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/7.0.0>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/solr/7.0.0>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

 * Doc values switched from random access to iterators.

 * The 7.0 codec now sparsely encodes sparse doc values and length normalization factors ("norms"), which also translates to optimization in both indexing, and search on sparse values. With these changes, you finally only pay for what you actually use with doc values, in index size, indexing performance, etc.

 * Index time boost for documents is now removed.

 * Substantial performance gains for delete and update heavy Lucene usage; see http://blog.mikemccandless.com/2017/07/lucene-gets-concurrent-deletes-and.html for details

 * Query scoring is now simpler with removal of coord factor, and query normalization.

 * Classic query parser no longer splits on whitespaces. This enables better multi-word synonym support.

 * The version of Lucene that created the index segment would be recorded, along with the version that last modified the index.

 * IndexWriter, used to add, update and delete documents in your index, will no longer accept broken token offsets sometimes produced by mis-behaving token filters.

 * IndexReader exposes methods that are typically used to manage resources whose lifetime needs to mimic the lifetime of segments/indexes, typically caches. They have been made much less trappy.

 * The dimensional points API now takes a field name up front to offer per-field points access, matching how the doc values APIs work.

 * The PostingsHighlighter was removed. Migrating to the UnifiedHighlighter should be straight-forward.

### Highlights for this Solr release include:

 * Replica Types - Solr 7 supports different replica types, which handle updates differently. In addition to pure NRT operation where all replicas build an index and keep a replication log, you can now also add so called PULL replicas, achieving the read-speed optimized benefits of a master/slave setup while at the same time keeping index redundancy.

 * Auto-scaling. Solr can now allocate new replicas to nodes using a new auto scaling policy framework. This framework will in future releases enable Solr to move shards around based on load, disk etc.

 * Indented JSON is now the default response format for all APIs, pass wt=xml and/or indent=off to use the previous unindented XML format.

 * The JSON Facet API now supports two-phase facet refinement to ensure accurate counts and statistics for facet buckets returned in distributed mode.

 * Streaming Expressions adds a new statistical programming syntax for the statistical analysis of sql queries, random samples, time series and graph result sets.

 * Analytics Component version 2.0, which now supports distributed collections, expressions over multivalued fields, a new JSON request language, and more.

 * The new v2 API, exposed at /api/ and also supported via SolrJ, is now the preferred API, but /solr/ continues to work.

 * A new '_default' configset is used if no config is specified at collection creation. The data-driven functionality of this configset indexes strings as analyzed text while at the same time copying to a '*_str' field suitable for faceting.

Both Apache Lucene and Solr 7.0.0 were tested to be fully compatible with the release of Java 9 and its module system Jigsaw, coming out tomorrow on September 21st!

See the [Lucene CHANGES.txt](/core/7_0_0/changes/Changes.html) and
[Solr CHANGES.txt](/solr/7_0_0/changes/Changes.html) files included
with the release for a full list of details.

