Title: Apache Lucene 7.5.0 and Apache Solr 7.5.0 Available

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 7.5.0 and Apache Solr 7.5.0

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/java/7.5.0>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.lua/lucene/solr/7.5.0>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

#### Bug Fixes

  * IndexWriter#deleteDocs(Query... query) applies deletes to wrong documents if the index is sorted.

#### Changes in Runtime behavior

  * TieredMergePolicy now respects maxSegmentSizeMB by default when executing findForcedMerges and findForcedDeletesMerges.

#### Improvements

  * A new points based Shape Indexing and Searching that decomposes shapes into a triangular mesh and indexes individual triangles as a 6 dimension point.
  * A new ByteBuffer based Directory implementation that aims to replace the deprecated RAMDirectory.
  * The UnifiedHighlighter can now use the MatchesIterator API to highlight any query more accurately.
  * TopFieldComparator can now stop comparing documents if the index is sorted, even if hits still need to be visited to compute the hit count.
  * TieredMergePolicy can control how aggressively deletes should be reclaimed with the new deletesPctAllowed setting.

### Highlights of this Solr release include:

  * Nested/child documents may now be supplied as a field value instead of stand-off. Future releases will leverage this semantic information.
  * Enhance Autoscaling policy support to equally distribute replicas on the basis of arbitrary properties.
  * Nodes are now visible inside a view of the Admin UI "Cloud" tab, listing nodes and key metrics.
  * The status of zookeeper ensemble is now accessible under the Admin UI Cloud tab.
  * The new Korean morphological analyzer ("nori") has been added to default distribution.

