Title: Apache Lucene 7.6.0 and Apache Solr 7.6.0 Available

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 7.6.0 and Apache Solr 7.6.0

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/solr/downloads.html>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

#### Bug Fixes

  * Index sorting corruption due to numeric overflow has been fixed. Indices affected by this bug can be detected by running the CheckIndex command on a 7.6+ release distribution.
  * Better tessellation processing of Polygons including graceful exceptions for detecting invalid shapes.

#### Improvements

  * Points codec now supports `selective indexing`; the ability to designate dimensions as as "data only" dimensions that do not affect construction of the index.
  * New Simple WKT Shape Parser builds lucene geometries (polygons, lines, rectangles) from WKT format.
  * New LatLonShapeLineQuery queries indexed shapes with arbitrary lines.
  * Performance in PerFieldMergeState#FilterFieldInfos has been improved from O(N) to O(1) lookup time.

### Highlights of this Solr release include:

  * Field and FieldType now support a new `uninvertible` option to control using costly field cache or more efficient docValues.
  * Collections API has been improved to support adding multiple replicas to a collection shard at a time as well as splitting into multiple sub-shards directly..
  * Autoscaling's suggestions API now include rebalance options as well as suggestions to add new replicas for lost replicas.
  * Several new Stream Evaluators have been added to include: oscillate, convexHull, enclosingDisk, pairSort, log10, percentiles, and pivot for geometric and scientific analysis.
  * UnifiedHighlighter has been improved to support best/perfect highlighting accuracy and full phrase highlighting.

