Title: Apache Lucene 7.7.0 and Apache Solr 7.7.0 Available
category: news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 7.7.0 and Apache Solr 7.7.0

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/solr/downloads.html>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

#### Bug Fixes

  * Fix LatLonShape WITHIN queries that fail with Multiple search Polygons that share the dateline.
  * LatLonShape's within and disjoint queries can return false positives with indexed multi-shapes.

#### Improvements

  * ExitableDirectoryReader may now time out queries that run on points such as range queries or geo queries.
  * StandardTokenizer and UAX29URLEmailTokenizer now support Unicode 9.0, and provide Unicode UTS#51 v11.0 Emoji tokenization with the "<EMOJI>" token type.
  * TopFieldCollector can now early-terminates queries when sorting by SortField.DOC.
  * Speed up merging segments of points with data dimensions by only sorting on the indexed dimensions.
  * The KoreanTokenizer no longer splits unknown words on combining diacritics and detects script boundaries more accurately with Character#UnicodeScript#of.
  * Change LatLonShape encoding to use 4 bytes Per Dimension.
  * BufferedUpdates now uses an optimized storage for buffering docvalues updates that can save up to 80% of the heap used compared to the previous implementation and uses non-object based datastructures.
  * Moved to the default accepted overhead ratio for packet ints in DocValuesFieldUpdates yields an up-to 4x performance improvement when applying doc values updates.
  * Doc-value updates get applied faster by sorting with quicksort, rather than an in-place mergesort, which needs to perform fewer swaps.
  * Decrease I/O pressure when merging high dimensional points.

### Highlights of this Solr release include:

  * URI Too Long with large streaming expressions in SolrJ.
  * A failure while reloading a SolrCore can result in the SolrCore not being closed.
  * Spellcheck parameters not working in new UI.
  * New Admin UI Query does not URL-encode the query produced in the URL box.
  * Rule-base Authorization plugin skips authorization if querying node does not have collection replica.
  * Solr installer fails on SuSE linux.
  * Fix incorrect SOLR_SSL_KEYSTORE_TYPE variable in solr start script.
  * JSON 'terms' Faceting now supports a 'prelim_sort' option to use when initially selecting the top ranking buckets, prior to the final 'sort' option used after refinement.
  * Add a login page to Admin UI, with initial support for Basic Auth and Kerberos.
  * New Node-level health check handler at /admin/info/healthcheck and /node/health paths that checks if the node is live, connected to zookeeper and not shutdown.
  * It is now possible to configure a host whitelist for distributed search.

