Title: Apache Lucene 8.4.0 and Apache Solr 8.4.0 available
category: news
URL: 
save_as: 

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache® Lucene™ 8.4.0 and Apache® Solr™ 8.4.0.

Lucene can be downloaded from <https://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>
and Solr can be downloaded from <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/downloads.html>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

  * LatLonShape now supports the "CONTAINS" relation, which enables to find all indexed shapes that contain the query shape.
  * Concurrent search is getting more efficient by allowing collectors to share information across threads in order to more efficiently skip non-competitive hits.
  * Faster FST lookups on dense nodes.
  * Postings are now decoded using SIMD instructions.
  * LRUQueryCache includes new heuristics that prevent caching from hurting latency too much.
  * LatLonShape builds a more efficient tree that is expected to translate into search speed improvements.
  * BaseDirectoryReader no longer sums up document counts across leaves eagerly, allowing for more efficient reader views that hide a subset of documents.
  * The index on top of BKD trees is now stored off-heap with MMapDirectory.
  * Simple Intervals queries support highlighting.
  * Reading DocValues can be interrupted when timeout is exceeded.


### Highlights of this Solr release include:

  * A new package management system was introduced in order to ease deploying plugins.
  * Better security with the out-of-the-box configuration.

A summary of important changes is published in the Solr Reference Guide at <https://lucene.apache.org/solr/guide/8_4/solr-upgrade-notes.html>.
