Title: Apache Lucene 8.1.0 and Apache Solr 8.1.0 Available

The Lucene PMC is pleased to announce the release of Apache Lucene 8.1.0 and Apache Solr 8.1.0

Lucene can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/core/downloads.html>
and Solr can be downloaded from <http://lucene.apache.org/solr/downloads.html>

### Highlights of this Lucene release include:

  * A query introspection API has been introduced.
  * Luke, well-known GUI for inspecting Lucene indexes, now added as a Lucene module
  * Merging dimensional points to use radix partitioning, which has also been optimized
  * Bugfix: LatLonShapePolygonQuery returns incorrect WITHIN results with shared boundaries
  * TieredMergePolicy#findForcedMerges now tries to create the cheapest merges
  * Build point writers in the BKD tree only when they are needed
  * SynonymQuery can now deboost the document frequency of each term when blending synonym scores
  * ConstantScoreQuery can early terminate if minimum score > constant score (total hits are not requested)
  * DateRangePrefixTree can now parse more precise dates

### Highlights of this Solr release include:

  * Partial/Atomic Updates for nested documents. This enables atomic updates for nested documents, without the need to supply the whole nested hierarchy (which would be overwritten if absent).
  * Category Routed Aliases feature introduced for data driven assignment of documents to collections based on values of a field
  * JWT Token authentication plugin with OpenID Connect implicit flow login through Admin UI
  * REINDEXCOLLECTION command for re-indexing of existing collections
  * Collection RENAME command and support using aliases in most collection admin commands
  * Read-only mode for SolrCloud collections
  * Handling of incorrect or absent values was improved for many request parameters. In such cases the response is 400 http code (Bad Request), instead of 500 (Internal Server Error) as it was before.
  * Breaching timeAllowed limit correctly responded as 200 http code (Ok) with partialResults=true, instead of 500 (Internal Server Error) as it was before in SolrCloud. Note, it was fixed for essential request parameters, if you still evidence 500 caused by timeAllowed, please submit an issue with log excerpt attached.
  * In-place updates work for collections created with route.field.
  * Asynchronous Collection API calls do not return completion status prematurely when more than one replica reside per note.
  * Range Facets and Terms Component performance has been optimized for certain cases.

